---
title: What personal protective equipment (PPE) should be worn by individuals transporting patients who are confirmed with or under investigation for COVID-19 within a healthcare facility? For example, what PPE should be worn when transporting a patient to radiology for imaging that cannot be performed in the patient room?
tag: healthcare
layout: post
date: March 17, 2020
---

In general, transport and movement of the patient outside of  their room should be limited to medically essential purposes. If being transported outside of the room, such as to radiology, healthcare personnel (HCP) in the receiving area should be notified in advance of transporting the patient. For transport, the patient should wear a facemask to contain secretions and be covered with a clean sheet.

If transport personnel must prepare the patient for transport (e.g., transfer them to the wheelchair or gurney), transport personnel should wear [all recommended PPE](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/infection-control/control-recommendations.html) (gloves, a gown, respiratory protection that is at least as protective as a fit-tested NIOSH-certified disposable N95 filtering facepiece respirator or facemask—if a respirator is not available—and eye protection [i.e., goggles or disposable face shield that covers the front and sides of the face]). This recommendation is needed because these interactions typically involve close, often face-to-face, contact with the patient in an enclosed space (e.g., patient room). Once the patient has been transferred to the wheelchair or gurney (and prior to exiting the room), transporters should remove their gown, gloves, and eye protection and perform hand hygiene.

If the patient is wearing a facemask, no recommendation for PPE is made typically for HCP transporting patients with a respiratory infection from the patient's room to the destination. However, given current limitations in knowledge regarding COVID-19 and following the currently cautious approach for [risk stratification and monitoring of healthcare personnel caring for patients with COVID-19](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/guidance-risk-assesment-hcp.html), use of a facemask by the transporter is recommended for anything more than brief encounters with COVID-19 patients. Additional PPE should not be required unless there is an anticipated need to provide medical assistance during transport (e.g., helping the patient replace a dislodged facemask).

After arrival at their destination, receiving personnel (e.g., in radiology) and the transporter (if assisting with transfer) should perform hand hygiene and wear [all recommended PPE](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/infection-control/control-recommendations.html). If still wearing their original respirator or facemask, the transporter should take care to avoid self-contamination when donning the remainder of the recommended PPE. This cautious approach will be refined and updated as more information becomes available and as response needs change in the United States.

Interim guidance for EMS personnel transporting patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 is [available here](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/guidance-for-ems.html). EMS personnel should wear all recommended PPE because they are providing direct medical care and in close contact with the patient for longer periods of time.
